Any other questions?
That's everything.
Thank you.
So, Federal and Victoria Police there
giving an update on the news which came
out a short time ago, which is that a
third man has been charged by the
Victorian Joint Counterterrorism Team
over the firebombing of a Melbourne
synagogue. The 20-year-old man from
Airport West was today charged with
criminal damage by fire, conduct
endangering life, and theft of a motor
vehicle. Authorities allege he's one of
three people who broke into and set fire
to the Adas Israel synagogue in December
2024. Police have asked the public there
to come forward if they have information
about the event. Investigations are
ongoing and the investigation has
international connections. We were told
that's the latest from Victoria.
A man will face court today in Sydney
after being charged with assaulting
another man at an aged care home. Julia
Andre has the details.
At 9:00 p.m. on Wednesday evening,
reports were made to police that an
assault had occurred at this age care
facility here in Hammondville in
southwest Sydney at about 900 p.m. Now,
an 87year-old man was treated here at
the scene for head and facial injuries,
but was transported to Liverpool
Hospital in a serious condition. The
following day, yesterday afternoon, at
about 300 PM, a 69year-old man was
arrested and charged at this facility
with assault, occasioning bodily harm.
Now, it's understood that both the
alleged offender as well as the victim
are dementia patients at this facility
in a cottage, which is part of the
facility, which has 30 uh dementia care
patients in it at one time. Hemond care
will have to make a serious incident
report about what happened here to the
age care quality and safety commission.
When we reached out to the commission in
a statement, they said that providers
have clear legal responsibilities to
prevent, minimize, and respond to any
incidents which may impact residents.
That'll be the focus of their
investigation. And if they find out that
Heman Care hasn't met their obligations,
they can pursue them legally. Meanwhile,
New South Wales police will continue
their investigation.
Julia Andre reporting. AFL great Tony
Modra is in hospital with serious
injuries after his truck crashed into a
tree last night. Modra played 165 AFL
games for the Adelaide Crows and
Fremantle Dockers, kicking 440 goals for
Adelaide. Reporter Charles Bryce is
outside Flender's Medical Center in
Adelaide for us. Hi there, Charles.
What's the latest on Tony Modra's
condition?
SA Health provided an update on his
condition a little earlier this morning.
He's in a a critical but stable
condition at in the intensive care unit
here at the Flenders Medical Center. His
wife Erica released a statement through
Mark Rashido who is a former teammate of
Tony Modras and also a breakfast radio
host here in Adelaide. In that
statement, she thanked the first
responders for
taking care of of her husband. She also
said that uh it was he is going all
right and it's pretty amazing he got
through this. This incident occurred at
about quarter past 5 last night at about
hour and a half's drive south of
Adelaide at a district called uh Back
Valley. It was the sole occupant of the
truck that crashed into a tree. Uh the
reaction has or the the crash has
sparked great reaction from right across
the state and the footballing world. of
the premier Peter Malinowska said that
Tony Modra is a South Australian icon
and he also said that he was thinking of
both Tony Modra and his family at this
time. The Adelaide Crows will they're
preparing for a game tomorrow. They were
arriving at training this morning and at
the ABC to speak with a few of those
players including Alex Neil Bull and
here's what he had to say. Yeah, just
want to say we're all thinking of the
Mods family at the moment. Um, and Mods
hope he has a full recovery and yeah,
the footy club's in full support for for
him and his family.
Yeah, I used to watch Mods as a kid.
Only just saw him the other night at the
Hall of Fame uh dinner and and function.
So yeah, great at the footy club, a
greater South Australian football
community and wishing him and the family
all the best.
It's pretty fresh for me like it is for
everyone. Um yeah, obviously big part of
the Freo family and um yeah, all I can
say is I wish him and his his family
well and um yeah, hopefully hopefully he
can pull through. I'm thinking of him.
We're all thinking of him and his family
and yeah um thoughts are with him.
That was Justin Longmu, the the coach of
Free Outdoor Dockers where Tony Modra
played for three years. Uh Ros, it's um
it sparked a a huge reaction. Tony Modra
was a a grade of the game. He played
games, kicked more than 440 goals as
well. So, uh there's been a lot of well
wishes from right across the country.
Charles, thank you.
The Greens say talks are continuing with
the federal government over proposed
changes to negative gearing and the
capital gains tax discount. Labor is
hoping to pass its legislation in the
next sitting fortnight after announcing
a major backdown on key measures
yesterday. Fiscal reporter Sarah Tesca
joins us now from Canra. Hi Sarah. So
where are negotiations up to? Ros,
getting the Greens on board will be key
to Labour's hopes of passing the first
tranch of its tax changes through
Parliament in the next sitting
fortnight. Both parties say talks are
ongoing. The Green's economic
spokesperson Nick McKim has welcomed
Labour's move to limit broad ministerial
powers from the legislation. That was a
concern that had been raised. But the
Greens are still critical of plans to
grandfather negative gearing
arrangements, saying they are too
generous, arguing the tax concession is
worth $33 billion a year for investors,
money that could be used to fund cost of
living relief. Among the other changes
or backdowns announced yesterday, though
the treasurers disputed that this was a
backdown, is lifting the small business
threshold from 2 million to $10 million,
carveouts for innovative businesses or
startups and scrapping tax on
discretionary testimeamentary trusts. Uh
so look the response from small business
and startup uh sector groups has been
broadly positive though the Australian
Chamber of Commerce and Industry has
described the changes really as a
patchup job urging the government to go
back to the drawing board and saying
that the amendments don't don't address
the fundamental concerns the business
community has with this legislation
which is that it could undermine
investment. The treasurer has uh said
these these concerns were expected. Tax
reform is contentious. You're never
going to please everyone. But Jim Charas
argued that the status quo is broken and
needs to be addressed.
Whenever you're delivering real change,
whenever you're delivering economic
reform and particularly tax reform, uh
it will be controversial, it will be
contentious, it will be contested, but
it will be worth it because what it
means is more young people getting a tow
hold in the housing market. It means
more tax cuts for workers. It means a
fairer tax system all around.
Now, the treasurer also acknowledged
this morning that some of the backlash
to the federal budget has taken paint
off Labor politically. He accused the
coalition and partisan or vested
interests though of running something of
a smear campaign against the changes,
something opposition leader Angus Taylor
has rejected.
What a load of nonsense. Seriously, he
wanted to impose death taxes on
Australians.
He wanted to impose death taxes on
Australians. Uh he wanted to increase
taxes uh for small businesses, for
investors, for people saving. Uh his own
plan says that we'll get less houses as
a result of these taxes. His own plan,
his own budget says we're going to have
higher rents. His own budget. And when
we say that, what's in his budget? He
says it's a scare campaign.
So, plenty more of the political
rhetoric to come, Ros, as negotiations
continue between Labour and the Greens
in the Senate. Thanks, Sarah.
This is ABC News. Our top stories. A
third man has been charged by the
Victorian Joint Counterterrorism Team
over the fire bombing of a Melbourne
synagogue. The 20-year-old man from
Airport West was charged with criminal
damage by fire, conduct endangering
life, and theft of a motor vehicle.
Authorities allege he's one of three
people who broke into and set fire to
the Adas Israel synagogue in December
2024.
A ceasefire between the US and Iran is
now in effect with both sides to spend a
minimum of 60 days negotiating a
permanent peace deal. Israel is so far
defying calls for it to withdraw from
seized territory in Lebanon south. US
Vice President JD Vance has hit back at
Israeli critics of the agreement, saying
Washington is Israel's only ally.
UK Labour candidate Andy Bernham has won
the Mega Field bi-election. The result
will renew pressure on Prime Minister
Saki Starmmer with Mr. Bernham expected
to launch a leadership challenge as soon
as next week.
And the soccerus are preparing to take
on the USA in their World Cup clash in
Seattle tomorrow morning. Australia's
2-nil win over Turkey has them tied with
the US at the top of Group D. A win for
either team will have them well placed
for the knockout stages.
More now on Ukraine's largest attack on
Moscow since the start of Russia's
full-scale invasion. Ukraine's president
Vladimir Lenski says it was in
retaliation for a strike that damaged a
historic monastery in Kev this week. Dr.
Matthew Sussex is a defense expert from
Deacon University and joins us now. Good
to see you, Matthew.
See you too, Ros.
So, what are your thoughts on the scale
of this latest attack on Russia's
capital?
Well, look, this is uh certainly a um
an upswing, if you like, in Ukraine's
ability to hit Russian population
centers um at very long range. Um it's
been going after mainly oil production
facilities
um deep in Russia for, you know, the
last 6 months or so. Um, but this is
more of a demonstration effect because
by hitting the biggest oil refinery in
Moscow, uh you're basically taking 50%
uh of petrol and 50% of diesel, which is
what the refinery supplies, uh away from
Muscovites. And it's a way, I think, to
to bring the costs of the war home to
Russians who in many respects don't
necessarily feel its impacts too
strongly. M and what do these latest
Ukrainian strikes uh Matthew say about
Moscow's air defenses?
Well, uh it says that that uh Russia
badly needs the type of layered air
defense that Ukraine has been uh been
producing. Um, effectively what the
Ukrainians are doing is, uh, shooting
some fairly, uh, cheap, slow drones, uh,
as well as some much faster missiles,
um, at, uh, at targets in Moscow. And,
uh, basically the the Russians have
missiles to shoot them down, but not
much else. Um, whereas the Ukrainians
have leed that, particularly with these
slow uh, very very cheap drones, you you
can take them down with a rifle. Uh and
that's why for instance we've seen uh
video of one of the Ukrainian drones
being hit by a Russian missile which
then goes uh and crash lands on a
residential area.
And how's Moscow responding then? How
much do we know about their munition
stockpile now? And also levels of
casualties.
Yes, I mean uh Moscow has said that it
will retaliate in kind and uh what it
usually says when uh when Ukraine hits
Russia. um that uh revenge will be
swift. Uh in reality, of course, we know
that Russia has been having an ongoing
campaign against Ukrainian cultural
sites. You know, you mentioned the very
famous UNESCO monastery that was bombed
by the Russians. That monastery is is
sacred to the Russian Orthodox Church as
well. Um so, you would assume more of
this kind of thing uh from uh from the
Russian government. Um, since 2022, uh,
about 600 Ukrainian churches have been
destroyed, uh, or badly damaged by
Russian forces. And this is a way to try
and, I think, intimidate the Ukrainian
population.
Australia has committed another $100
million to Ukraine's war effort. Does
Ukraine's expertise with drone warfare
mean it's getting more bang for its
buck, literally? How much sustained
funding does it need?
Well, uh, look, absolutely. Ukraine has
uh managed to to create, you know, in a
very short space of time a very thriving
domestic armaments industry around
drones, which of course it's now selling
to to other clients in the Middle East.
Um uh Ukraine certainly does need, you
know, a lot of assistance and anything
that Australia can give, I think is
going to be warmly welcomed. Uh I
noticed the Ukrainian ambassador Vasel
Neros Nichenko uh recently uh expressed
great pleasure at the extra funding
package from Australia. Uh but beyond
that um the Ukra the Ukrainians will
continue to rely I think on Europe um
which recently passed about a 90 billion
euro u 90 90 billion euro package uh for
uh for funding for Ukraine. Um and
that's something that previously the uh
the former Hungarian prime minister
Victor Orban uh was very keen to block
and with him out of the way uh the
Europeans I think have now a free hand
in terms of helping Ukraine financially.
Yeah. And Vladimki says the Moscow
attack was part of Ukraine's effort to
force his Russian counterpart to the
negotiating table. Do you see that
happening without Donald Trump's
involvement?
Well, funnily enough, Donald Trump has
has really, you know, burned a lot of
his diplomatic capital when it comes to
Europe. Um, and he's probably unable now
to pressure Ukraine to get a deal
favorable to Vladimir Putin. Um, so, uh,
that's going to be rather difficult. And
Putin himself, um, has, you know, made a
lot out of, uh, the the psychology of
Russia's approach, saying to the West,
you know, I can outlast you. I have more
people. My risk tolerance is higher. Uh
but I think the Ukrainians by hitting
these sites in Moscow uh are saying well
you know let's test that. Let's see if
public pressure can be brought to bear
on Putin to bring the war to a close.
Matthew Sussex thank you so much for
joining us.
Thanks Ros.
Let's get finance news now with David
Chow. Hi David. uh former executives
from the auditing firm KPMG are
currently being grilled by politicians
in CRA. What can you tell us?
That's right, Ross. So, currently
there's a parliamentary inquir into KPMG
itself, one of the country's largest
auditing and consulting firms, which has
millions of dollars worth of lucrative
contracts of all these government
departments. So, there's a desire to
hold them accountable uh for allegations
that have been aired in recent weeks. So
basically uh what they're looking into
is KPMG's alleged poor treatment of
whistleblowers who expose wrongdoing and
uh KPMG's alleged misuse of confidential
information which is a serious breach of
auditors duties. So I'll just give you a
bit of background first. So, it all
happened back in 2024 when a
whistleblower uh then employed by KPMG
uh came to senior management raising
concerns that there were auditors within
the firm that were misusing confidential
information uh from clients to win work
from other clients. Now, that client
whose data was uh misused was Lend
Lease, the big construction giant. Uh so
they were trying to win auditing work
from uh other companies at the time like
Dexus uh another property firm and
Westpak the banking giant. So there was
an internal investigation held within
KPMG and essentially the whistleblower
was not believed and eventually
pressured to resign. So since then the
whistleblower uh went public with these
allegations uh went through the
politicians and uh in March earlier this
year Deborah O'Neal the Labour senator
read out these allegations publicly uh
using the protection of parliamentary
privilege and then when we fast forward
to 3 weeks ago KPMG Australia CEO Andrew
Yates suddenly resigned and so did the
head of uh the auditing section Julian
McFersonen basically acknowledging that
they should have treated the
whistleblower better and uh there were
shortcomings with the uh way they
treated uh this uh person. Now, let's
get a flavor of the hearing uh an
exchange between uh Labour Senator
Deborah O'Neal and Andrew Yates, the
former CEO. It's pretty fiery.
You're just you're the bad apples. The
question is, are you the bad apples or
is the whole the whole barrel rotten?
What's going on, Mr. Yates?
I don't see myself as a bad apple,
Senator. see some someone has took
accountability for things that went
wrong and nor do I see uh the firm to be
full of bad apples. We're a large
complex organization
uh and we're fallible.
Don't don't play with me here, Mr.
Yates.
I'm not Senator. I don't know the answer
to what a partnership means when you
lead one of the biggest partnerships in
the country designed and organized in
such a way to allow up to a thousand
partners and you've come in here and
said we're not bad apples and in
addition to not being bad apples
everybody else at KPMG is pretty well
clear so that Senator O'Neal questioning
Andrew Yates the former CEO of KPMG in
Australia. Now I also mentioned a guy
called Julian McFersonen the former head
of the auditing section at KPMG. He also
has been facing questions and throughout
uh the questioning of Mr. McFersonen, it
came out that the whistleblower after
making uh these allegations had their
computer searched at work and uh yeah,
there were a lot of critical questions
uh about that. So when asked why the
whistleblower's computer was searched,
uh Mr. person said basically they were
concerned this whistleblower was going
to find a job elsewhere looking for
alternative employment and might take
KPMG confidential data with them which
was not a response that was received
well by the politicians in that room
because I mean it betrays a certain
irony that KPMG is very concerned about
their own confidential info but maybe
not as much when it comes to their
clients info or certainly maybe there
are some bad apples if they exist that
are not as concerned about uh their
client's info now it's a big day of
hearings all up. There'll be 38
witnesses from well this morning up to
6:00 p.m. tonight. And if anyone of our
viewers wants to get the a blowby-blow
uh you know recount of what's happens, I
strongly recommend they look at the ABC
business blog today. A lot of detail
there
and how the market's doing today. David,
not so well. Ros, so you know, ever
since a couple of days ago when it was
announced that, you know, the memorandum
understanding was signed between the US
and Iran, the Australian share market's
been going down. So today it's down
about 1% which is a pretty steep fall.
That's ASX and the OLords. And the
biggest dragon market was BHP down 3%.
Now on Wall Street uh there was the
opposite reaction. It actually hit
record highs. So tech stocks rebounded.
So suddenly Wall Street's not re worried
about higher interest rates anymore
which is what spooked the markets
yesterday. And uh Ros that is the latest
in finance news.
Thank you David.
Virgin Australia has extended the expiry
date for travel booked using flight
credits issued during CO 19 travel bans
after pressure from customers and
consumer advocates. National tourism
reporter Christy Stexter McGra joins us
now from Ken. Hi again Christie. So how
big a departure is this from what was
originally proposed?
Good afternoon Ros. Well, Virgin has
been clear for some time that co flight
credits were due to expire at the end of
this month and that included traveling
within that period. So, Virgin has said
that it held about $93 million in uh
travel credits which it was set to
pocket. Now, uh that has attracted a lot
of criticism from uh consumer groups and
the opposition transport minister,
Senator Bridget McKenzie. uh Virgin
today have released a statement saying
that customers uh will still need to
spend those crav credits by June 30. Uh
however, customers will now be able to
use those credits for flights up to late
May 2027.
So essentially buying uh a little bit
more time there. Now, Virgin Australia
chief executive officer Dave Emerson has
said more than $1 billion worth of CO 19
credits have already been claimed. Uh,
as I mentioned, around 90% of those CO
credits have already been redeemed. Um,
and they say and he says that for
customers who still hold uh a remaining
balance, this extension provides
additional flexibility to plan and take
future travel rods.
And how's the news been received,
Christie?
Well, the announcement has not been
wellreceived by consumer groups and the
opposition transport minister Bridget
McKenzie uh Bridget McKenzie uh had been
pushing for a full refund or to extend
those credits indefinitely. Now, it's
important to to note that both Jet Star
and Quantis don't have an expiry date on
those co on their co uh on their co uh
flight credits. Uh so yeah, arguing that
Virgin should return the money uh or
extend the credit. Uh she has said that
if Virgin is expecting a slow clap and a
cheer of huray uh from their loyal
customers that they're very unlikely to
get it uh from this announcement. Part
of her argument is we are in the middle
of a cost of living crisis. Now, Virgin
have argued that people have had five
years to claim these credits and um so
they've had plenty of time to do it. Uh
but Miss McKenzie has argued that not
everyone has the money uh to travel. Uh
so look, she has said that um that the
airlines shouldn't be allowed to to
travel or retain customer funds uh
without providing the service that they
have paid for. Uh again, Virgin have
said that people have had plenty of time
to redeem those credits. Uh I have
spoken to quite a few people though
about why they haven't redeemed those
credits yet when they have had so much
time to do so. Um and one of the people
that I was speaking to said that they uh
that the the Virgin flight credit that
they received had actually gone through
to their spam. And 5 years ago is a long
time now, he had completely forgotten
it. So, he essentially finds himself in
a situation now where he's got $1,000 to
spend and not long to book his travel.
It may be winter, but Australian ski
resorts are having a tough start to the
season with reports that many people
have cancelled their trips to the snow
because of the disappointing conditions.
With more, here's Reggae Ellis, the
editor of Mountain Watch, a website
which offers updates on ski conditions.
and Reggae joins us from Threadbo.
What's the snow like there today,
Reggae?
Well, Ros, as you said, we u don't have
any natural snow across the Australian
resorts. Um, which is understandable
given all of Australia's been under the
warmest May and June in a long long
time. So, yeah, but having said that,
it's not hugely unusual not to have snow
uh in the first half of June either. So,
pretty common situation. The big
difference is it's been really warm over
the last few days, few couple of weeks.
So, we haven't seen a lot of snow making
since the opening weekend two weeks ago.
We've got some uh shots, live webcam
shots of uh some I think it's of
Parisher. This one there's just no snow
at all, is there?
No, there's not. And um of course, two
weeks ago that was totally white and
there was people skiing from the top of
that lift to the bottom. We had 30 cm
snowfall come through around the second
and third of June leading into the
opening weekend. Of course, the opening
weekend is only held on the first
weekend of June because it's a long
weekend. Um, and a lot of resorts like
New Zealand, for example, they don't
open until they have snow. And New
Zealand resorts have all had to push
back their opening dates as well. Uh,
here in Australia, we've got skiing and
snowboarding at the moment on
machinemade snow just limited to um here
in Threadbo, they've got the uh two
lifts open down the Friday flat area and
in Mount Bullah, Burke Street's open.
They got their six-seater chair open
there. And up at Parisher, there's a
little tiny area open there as well. So,
yeah, hopefully we're going to see
change come through tonight. Temps have
already dropped 2° since um over the
last 2 hours. And the forecast is for
maybe 10 cm of snow, maybe 15 uh down
to,700 meters, which is at the base of
Parisher over the next 24 to 48 hours.
And then a lot of cold air behind that.
We'll see uh the snow makers probably
going to get a good run four or five
nights from uh Saturday night through to
next Friday.
Okay, let's hope so. But how's it
affecting business in the meantime?
Reggie, you run a you have a own a local
retail business, don't you?
Yeah, we do. Uh definitely quieter than
uh normally for this time of year, of
course. Um usually it's quite unusual
for Parisher not to have that front
valley open. In fact, it's probably only
the third time that's happened in the
last 10 years. Um, you know, you just
have to go back to 23. Uh, there weren't
any lifts open until the 20th of June
and then we saw a series of storms and
snow making come through and the snow
peak hit it around 140 cm. That of
course was an El Nino year as well. And
um, yeah, we're just going to see how
things pan out. Like at this stage,
traditionally June is quite even last
year. We definitely had more people here
last year, but the snow was pretty well
top to bottom. Um, but yeah, more
advanced skis and borders. won't bother
booking before um July and then most of
them wait until after the school
holidays as well which will finish in
around the third week of July. But yeah,
interesting to see how this one pans
out. Um to be honest, we've seen it all
before. Uh the big thing this year is
going to be the El Nino and you know
above average temps and of course the
emphasis is on average. Um that doesn't
mean we're not going to get a lot of
cold nights as well the snow making and
does not mean we won't see a few storms
come through. The reality is with
Australia, you you get two or three good
storms that drop 50 to 70 80 cm over a 3
or 4 day window and that kind of sets
things up. Um it's always the back end
of the season which is more worrisome
when you see those haird dry northwest
winds kick into gear. Um which is you
know um traditionally happens uh in um
late August into September. But having
said that, um 2015 was an El Nino year
and we had lifts open till the Monday of
the October long weekend. So still up in
the air at this stage.
So Reggae, what's your advice finally to
people who are about to head to the
mountains and will be worried about what
will greet them there.
Um well, yeah, I presume they've all
seen it all before. I mean, uh, yeah,
bookings are pretty solid for this year
and that's on the back of last year's
really good winter and the enthusiasm
generated by the Winter Olympics
apparently. Um, but yeah, at this stage,
uh, I just sort of, you know, look at
wait and look, you know, the reality is
the majority of the people who
Australian skis and snowboarders, they
like staying on the groom runs and, you
know, sort of intermediate um, terrain.
So, uh, it' be highly unusual if first
time ever if those runs don't end up
opening over the next two or 3 weeks.
But if you have booked down here, I'd
say, you know, unless you're, uh,
looking for some deep powder turns,
don't panic yet. You know, um, August,
which is, you have peak season, is still
a long way away.
Okay. Well, we hope they get a few good
dumps very soon. Reggae Ellis, thank you
so much for talking to us.
No worries, Ros. Thank you.
Now with sport, here's Jared Coot.
Soccer is coach Tony Papovic says his
side will need to be better if they're
going to defeat the US in their second
FIFA World Cup group game. Australia
takes on the co-host early tomorrow
morning at Seattle Stadium. Both sides
secured wins in their opening match with
US dominating Paraguay and Australia
defeating Turkey 2-nil. Povich says the
Americans present a different challenge.
Tia were um yeah more European style in
terms of um their technical buildup. Um
slower buildup um fantastic possession.
Um I think the US team has a good mix of
the two. Uh very powerful, very
athletic. Um so we know it will be a
different type of challenge. uh playing
the host nation here as well is a
wonderful challenge but also a wonderful
opportunity for us um and we know that
um you know we will need to be better
than we were against Turkey to to get a
get the result we want.
Canada has secured its first men's FIFA
World Cup victory beating Qatar 6-nil in
a match which has been soured by
horrific injury to one of their star
players. Ismael Kone was kicked in the
leg and was stretched from the field in
the spiteful clash against Qatar in
Vancouver. Two Katarati players were
sent off during the match in separate
incidents with Canada moving to the top
of group B. Earlier Switzerland moved
second in the group with a 4-1 win over
Bosnia and Herzgoina in Los Angeles
while South Africa and the Czech
Republic played out a one draw.
Freemantle has won its 13th straight
match after overrunning Jalong by 14
goals 1599 to 14690 at Perth Stadium.
The Dockers trailed by 28 points midway
through the second quarter in the top
four clash. Jai Amos and Luke Jackson
both booted three goals each while
Andrew Bradaw had 35 disposals. Coach
Justin Long says the fortunes turned
around in the second half.
Yeah, clearly got our kicking boots on
at halftime and would have kicked seven
straight in the third. Um and then I
thought we'd ground out the last.
There's some things we need to do a
little bit better in the last, but I
thought we'd ground out um a really
solid win. So um felt like yeah,
whenever you whenever you win by a
margin that is the difference in the
points telly or won by nine points I
think and kicked nine more points. It
just feels like we made it a little bit
closer than what we needed. Australian
tennis player Ricky Jakarta is stunned
check second seed Yuri Lehka in three
sets to advance to the quarterfinal to
Queens. The qualifier lost the first set
but storm back to prevail in a third set
tiebreaker 467576.
The Jakata is ranked 92 places below the
check but put on an impressive display
at the Wimbledon warm-up event in West
London. The 25-year-old is into the
quarterfinals of the grass court
tournament for the second time after his
run in 2024 when he was also a
qualifier.
And that's all in sport for now.
Thanks Jared. Let's have a quick look at
the national weather now. Brisbane
mostly sunny. Sydney cloudy showers for
Canberra, Melbourne, and Hobart. Showers
as well for Adelaide and partly cloudy
in Perth. And in Darwin, a top in Darwin
of 29 degrees today.
That is ABC News for now. I'm Ross
Child. Stay with us. We'll have more on
the ABC News Channel in just a moment.
Bye for now.
What are you? We're waiting to do
something for ourselves.
From rags, you've earned for business to
riches.
From now on, people will matter. Well,
she's a common fish.
Who do you think you are?
We're the harders.
The heartachers. Tomorrow on ABC and ABC
I View.
This is my first time telling my story.
I'm not here to scare you and I'm
definitely not here to tell you how to
live your lives.
An ABC News documentary
into the world for the Australian Miller
wins. It's double gold for him.
He was so naturally talented. It was off
the scale.
I'm here because I made decisions that
ended up costing me everything.
He was on every talk show. He was
partying with models. You've sort of got
this bad boy image.
I went straight to the dark side.
I would describe the two of them at that
time as oil and water.
She met one Scott and she didn't know
the other Scott. Lots of mistakes, lots
of pain. There's uh other factors at
play.
Things were kind of spiraling on a
variety of different fronts.
I could look into his eyes and I
couldn't see his soul. It
was clear that he was in a lot of
trouble. I had no idea you could fall
this far so quickly.
I didn't fear death. I didn't fear
prison. I didn't fear anything. I just
wanted out.
Deep end. The Scott Miller story, Monday
at 8, ABC and I view.
In the days of the British Empire,
things were taken.
The English wanted everything.
What if there was a way to fight for
justice?
What we're doing is not stealing, it's
reclaiming.
Stuff the British doll Tuesday at 8 or
stream the full season on ABC View.
This is the extraordinary story of a
Victorian serial killer. Is this the
Temp's torso murderer?
Lucy Warsley Victorian Murder Club.
Tuesday 8:30 on ABC and ABC I View.
Stand by everyone and action.
Welcome to Manila.
This crazy idea wasn't so crazy after
all.
Do you think they'll know that I'm a
tourist?
Today, a third man charged over the
firebombing of a Melbourne synagogue in
2024. Police reveal they've been lied to
during their investigations.
You will not obstruct justice.
Now is the time for you to come forward.
US and Iran ceasefire comes into effect,
allowing ships to move through the
straight of Hormuz.
UK Labor challenger Andy Bernham returns
to Westminster, setting up a showdown
with Prime Minister Kis Star.
And the soccer unconcerned about whether
US talisman Christian Pulisic plays in
tomorrow morning's World Cup showdown.
Hello and welcome to ABC News. I'm Ross
Childs. A third man has been charged by
the Victorian joint counterterrorism
team over the firebombing of a Melbourne
synagogue. Joining us now with more on
this is our reporter Natasha Chapova
from Melbourne. Natasha, hi there. What
can you tell us?
Good morning. What Ros? Well, today the
Victorian Joint Counterterrorism Team
have made a breakthrough, charging the
third person they believe to have set
fire to the Adas Israel synagogue in
Melbourne in December 2024. A 20year-old
Airport West man has been charged with
criminal damage by fire, conduct
endangering life, and theft of a motor
vehicle. He was already in custody being
held at the Metropolitan Rean Center for
unrelated matters and he will be
appearing at the Melbourne Magistrate's
Court on today's charges next Tuesday.
Now, this has been a joint investigation
by the Victorian Police, Australian
Federal Police, and AIO as well with
police now charging all three people
that they believe to have been involved
in setting fire to that synagogue in
2024.
Two other men were charged last year,
20-year-old man and a 21-year-old man.
And there was also another 20-year-old
Meadow Heightsman who was charged in
relation to a communal to allegedly
stealing a communal crime car which
police believe was used to drive to the
synagogue before that arson attack in
December 2024. Now, police have told us
it remains an active investigation and
that they believe it to be politically
motivated and that there's no place in
Australia for this sort of crime.
People deserve the right to feel safe
and be safe in their community and
particularly at their place of worship.
Today's charges are a strong testament
to this and it's a strong testament to
the cooperative strong working
relationship between Victoria Police um
AFP and of course our security partners.
So I thank all of our uh investigators
in particular for their un uh for their
unwavering professionalism and ongoing
work in relation to this incident and
other incidents.
What else will police be investigating,
Natasha?
Well, police have told us that they
believe that this crime does have
international connections and that
they're working with their international
partners within those jurisdictions to
also conduct their own investigations.
Police have also identified that there
are people who they believe to have been
obstructing the course of justice and
getting in the way of police
investigations by giving them the wrong
information. and they've told those
people to come forward before police
come to them themselves.
Natasha, thank you.
A ceasefire agreement reached between
the United States and Iran is officially
in effect with US Central Command
confirming that its naval blockade of
Iranian ports in the straight of Hormuz
has now been lifted. North America
correspondent Lauren Day reports from
Washington. Well, now that this deal is
officially signed, the hard work and the
hard cell have begun. And the man at the
center of both of those things is the
vice president, JD Vance. You might
remember yesterday the president joked
that if things go well, he will take
credit for it. And if things go badly,
he'll blame JD Vance. And and it appears
that the vice president is already
copying some of that blame. Today he
fronted the White House press briefing
and he took a barrage of questions and
criticisms mostly around the idea that
this is a huge economic win for Iran. He
hit back at those suggestions. He denied
that that is the case and he said that
all of the economic benefits that Iran
is receiving are contingent on them
complying with this deal that they will
have to change their behavior. But if
you take a look at theou itself, that's
not entirely the case. For example, it
states that the US will unfreeze assets
and release restricted funds immediately
and also that Iran will be able to
immediately begin selling oil and fuel.
And we've seen today Central Command
announcing the lifting of that US naval
blockade. There's been a lot of
criticism from Benjamin Netanyahu's
cabinet and also from media outlets
aligned with Benjamin Netanyahu. Very
strong criticism of this deal. JD Vance
made a rather veiled threat that if uh
is Israel undermines this deal that US
military support might be uh at at stake
here or might be impacted. Have a listen
to the kind of language that JD Vance
used earlier.
Donald J. Trump is the only head of
state in the entire world who is
sympathetic to the nation of Israel at
this moment in time. and he happens to
be the head of state of the world's
superpower. If I was in the cabinet of
the Israeli government, I might not be
attacking the only powerful ally that I
have anywhere left in the entire world.
Now, Donald Trump angered a lot of the
non-interventionist America first people
when he launched this war. And now he's
managed to anger the other half of his
base, the uh hawks who think that this
is a really bad deal for America. But
we've heard today from Senator Roger
Wicker, the chairman of the armed forces
committee, uh, who's bit concerned about
thisou and particularly that $300
billion reconstruction fund that I
mentioned. Now, we've also recently
heard from the Supreme Leader of Iran.
He's made his first public comment since
this deal was struck through a written
statement read on Iranian state media
and he said that the US president has
made this deal out of desperation and
that Iran won't submit to excessive
demands from the US but he has endorsed
these face-to-face talks and those talks
are due to begin shortly. We're not sure
exactly what the time or place of those
will be, but JD Vance suggested that
they could take place in Switzerland as
early as this weekend. So, we're still
waiting to see exactly when and where
those will be. But these negotiations
are going to be extremely tough and
there's a lot of hard work ahead for
both parties to try to reach some kind
of permanent agreement.
Lauren Day. Australia will provide an
additional $100 million in assistance to
Ukraine for critical military equipment.
It comes as Ukraine launched its largest
attack on Moscow since the start of the
war in 2022. As the war grinds on,
Europe's security has once again come
under the spotlight from Washington.
Ukrainian drones strike Russia's
capital.
This oil refinery hit for the second
time in 3 days. Flights were temporarily
suspended at all Moscow airports, the
city sky, instead filled with smoke.
Russian authorities say more than 200
drones were shot down, but just as many
made it through.
Russia's air defenses around Moscow are
not working as they should because this
is the most heavily defended place in
the country. Russia is already facing
fuel shortages and that federal budget
revenues are falling significantly. And
at the same time, our mid-range strikes
are seriously disrupting Russian
military logistics. But Putin is not
stopping this war.
But Europe's security concerns aren't
solely focused on Moscow. In Brussels,
the US Defense Secretary used a meeting
of NATO ministers to announce a
six-month review of America's military
presence across Europe, accusing some
allies of freewriting.
Europe was not supposed to be a
dependency of the United States.
The US has been ramping up pressure on
its allies to increase defense spending
for more than a year. Now, with this
review, the clock is officially ticking.
Many allies are pledging to pay more.
Secretary Hacket was very clear about
the need for a NATO 3.0, an alliance
rebooted for the modern age.
But on methods and timing, there's less
consensus. Cyan Balance, ABC News,
London.
In the UK, the mayor of Greater
Manchester has won a bi-election which
will allow him to challenge Karmama for
British prime minister. Andy Bernham has
repeatedly said he wants to push for a
Labor leadership contest. He won more
than half the vote in Makerfield, far
more than his closest rival from the
right-wing party, Reform UK. He says the
win could be a turning point and warned
that his party had one final chance to
change.
I am proud that this place has shone in
the world's spotlight these last five
weeks and the warmth, humor and
hospitality of its people has been on
show for all to see.
Yes. Yes.
It will never be a stepping stone to me,
but instead will be my touchstone. A
make a field test at the heart of
British politics will ensure the places
Westminster has neglected
will now get fairness.
And later this hour, I'll be speaking to
international politics expert, Professor
Ben Wellings about where things go from
here.
NBC investigation has found the
Australian company running the world's
biggest AI porn site could be breaking
laws against child abuse material. The
company behind the website says it has
zero tolerance for unlawful content,
invests heavily in moderation, and acts
quickly to take things down. Josh
Robertson is from the podcast background
briefing and joins us now from Brisbane.
Hi there, Josh. So what is this website
and what did you find?
Hi Ros, this website is called our
dream. Uh it came onto our radar because
we started seeing these Silicon Valley
style jobs advertised by a company on
the inner north shore of Sydney there
called Coreflow. And then we learned
that they're operating this AI porn
website which uh allows users uh the
opportunity to build uh AI characters uh
that they can then have uncensored
interactions with. And it was by chance
that we found on this site some
characters that looked to us young. We
engaged with the international center
for missing and exploited children. Uh
and they introduced us to an age
estimation tool which is used by law
enforcement and uh we found uh through
this tool we identified uh 11 characters
that looked to be 15 years or younger.
Uh so this was a a matter of great
concern and then we were wondering what
we should do about this material.
So what did you do with the information?
Well, we went to a uh a very senior
retired uh detective here in Queensland
who led a uh a unit called Task Force
Argos which targets online child
predators. His name is John Rouse. Uh
and John told us that our description of
the material to him uh based on that it
was child sexual abuse material that we
had found. He pointed out that the laws
uh ban any um or criminalize sexual
depictions of people under the age of
18. That's the Comwalth laws in a state
like Queensland.